---
title:  "Linux Command Line - Tips and Tricks"
date:   2017-12-28 00:00:00 -0600
categories: linux cli til tips
---
# Overview
I use a terminal pretty often in my daily job - either when logging in to servers or on my Macbook. In the spirit of learning, I decided to put together a document with some tips/tricks/shortcuts that I have learned over the years.

## Working with your history
A bash shell keeps a history of every command you run in the terminal. Here are some commands I rely on daily:

You can view your history with `history`:
```
$ history | grep git
12  git diff
31  cd git
70  git submodule update --init --recursive
72  git status
73  git add .
74  git status
77  vim .git/config
78  git status
79  rm -rf .git
80  git status
81  git init
```

Each line has a line number - this won't change as long as your history is saved. If you want to run a command from your history, you can do something like: `!$line_number`:
```
$ !80
git status
```

---

One of my favorite commands (and it saves me the most time) is the reverse history search. You can search the most recent commands you have ran by pressing `ctrl + r`:

```
(reverse-i-search)`':
```

Then you can start typing. Say you want to find the last `docker` command you ran, start typing 'docker':

```
(reverse-i-search)`doc': docker kill 80486e6e1927
```

You'll see, after I type 'doc' the last docker command appears. You can now scroll through all matches by pressing `ctrl + r` again. Once you find the command you want, you can hit enter to run it. You can also hit backspace if you typo a letter you don't want to search.

## Assorted tips and tricks

Forget to sudo a command? Instead of typing it again, or scrolling back and typing sudo, simply run `sudo !!`:

```
(1:1002)$ ls /etc/sensu/
ls: cannot open directory /etc/sensu/: Permission denied
(1:1002)$ sudo !!
sudo ls /etc/sensu/
conf.d	config.json  config.json.example  extensions  handlers
```

This will run the last command again, but with sudo applied.

---

Go back to last directory you were in - did you `cd` to a directory and want to go back to where you were? Simply run `cd -`

```
(1:1003)$ cd /opt/chef
(1:1004)$ cd /tmp/
(1:1005)$ cd -
/opt/chef
(1:1006)$ pwd
/opt/chef
```

## Git
I also use the Git command line pretty often. Git can be very confusing - especially when starting out. These commands are very basic - but they help me out almost daily.

Need to create a new branch quickly? Just use `checkout -b`:
```
git checkout -b new-branch
```

---

Make changes to the wrong branch, and need to switch branches without losing your changes? You can just use `git stash`

```
git diff
diff --git a/README.md b/README.md
index a058cd7..7ad7ca6 100644
--- a/README.md
+++ b/README.md
@@ -1,3 +1,4 @@
+Some code I don't want added on this branch.
```

Stashing saves the changes to your "stash":
```
git stash
Saved working directory and index state WIP on new-changes: a7e7137 Merge pull request #102
```

Then you can switch branches, and apply the changes from your stash:
```
git checkout -b different-branch
Switched to a new branch 'different-branch'
f45c898eb299:website z077514$ git stash pop
On branch different-branch
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

	modified:   README.md

no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

One thing to note - `git stash pop` removes the code in your stash. If you want to apply the changes _and_ keep your stash, just use `git stash apply`. This way you could theoretically apply your stashed changes to more branches.
